now we're going to do a little free hand
cutting in with this brush down here and
remember you can cut in with a one inch
to inch 4-inch whichever one you like
they're different there's angle sash
which are slightly angled and there is a
one that's a little bit more angled and
then there's a straight flat flat top
and different painters prefer different
ones but it's not so important what
brush use I mean you want to use a good
Alyssa fruity this isn't top the line
this just a good latex brush but what we
want to do is technique I have switch
hands here see if I can do this now most
painters that have time don't use a lot
of tape because it takes time to put the
table on tapes time takes time to put it
on what you want to do is you want to
load your brush but you want to only
load a little of it now you see how the
brush has got kind of bubbles on one
side and bubbles on the other you don't
want that you want it okay because what
happens is those bubbles what the
bubbles will do or bulges is when you go
to paint the bulges will they're hired
so they may go over on your your deal
here now what I do here is you want to
angle your brush hold your breath and
keep your ear
I'd like to give it a couple little test
tries just to see how well I don't like
to cut in first thing in the morning you
know I just like to practice a little
bit let's see we want to get closer to
it and then I have to see if i can do it
this way see I've got us a little bit of
a bolt a little bit of play no no don't
want on there what I wanted to take the
paint from right here and I want to push
it into the corner with just just that
the top eight inch of the bristles okay
now when you're out of pain of course
remember I've got to aim the camera and
do the straight line and hopefully not
get it on any concrete because you can't
get it off contry so I like take a
little bit of a DAB here and here this
is my extra paint this is my reservoir
see and then what I'll do is I start up
here and I will I will turn my brush
slowly go down on the very edge without
moving my head and hopefully holding my
breath which isn't happening in this
recording but whoops so you don't do
that now if you go if you go a little
bit over what you can do remember don't
use too much pain but what you can do is
you can you can go a little wider on the
top and a little wider on the bottom and
it'll kind of smooth itself out but I
can't do this with and you can see that
looks pretty good right there that's on
one coat but this is how painters paint
when they're in a hurry and they don't
use tape on everything tape is only used
on a few places like down here where we
don't want it on concrete or against
cabinets
tape can be used over here on the if
you'll see how I've cut this in this is
only one cut in line now they're the
brown that you see is not on the it's
not on the wood it's on the concrete and
so I kind of left it on there because
well I can't bring pink all over
everything you know after four or five
paint jobs you got to keep bringing it
over but you can see how I cut in the
thing is it takes it takes practice to
do this job but practice is not what
we're doing right now what we're doing
right now is technique and the technique
is if you follow it slowly and you
listen you can go a long ways and the
first lesson that I have to teach all
painters is I don't know everything I
don't pretend to know everything I don't
want to know everything i'm a student i
keep learning so what I'm saying if
someone come up with me to me with a
better idea I look at them and say gosh
that's great man I'm glad to know that I
didn't know that yesterday that's fine I
don't have an attitude or my ego just
say no I'm not gonna listen and what I
would suggest is that if you're learning
how to paint and you go on youtube and
you look at some videos or on the net
look at everyone's style because
everyone is different and I'm sure there
are a lot more tricks that I know I use
these different methods for my work
because I'm 50 years old and I can't go
fast mostly paint jobs are done on bid
that means this house would be like I
don't 5,000 bucks to paint it and you
have so many hours that you charge or
bill to get it done plus materials
myself I don't go by bid because one
thing is um I want to make sure the job
is done extremely well and so I charge
by the hour and I don't go it's not the
fact that it's going to cost them any
more money it's that I'm not going to be
under pressure to cut corners that's
just because of my age you know every
man's got to know his own
how klinische would say that every man
has to know his own limitations so I was
trained at a really good company and I'm
going to let you see the whole thing
when it gets done it'll probably take me
well a while and anyway it it's going to
look really good when it's all done
after it's done that course there's
touch-up but so if you're learning how
to paint or you want to know how to do
it remember you don't have to get it all
over your hands or everything else if
you go slow you don't have to use the
best equipment but you do have to have
the right technique okay